Fleshed out the documentation for Inject Data (#40)
plantanapp/documentation: docs/Actions/inject-data.md

---
id: inject-data
title: Inject Data
sidebar_label: Inject Data
---

> Audience: [`Business Users`](/docs/audience#business-users)<br/>
> Skill Prerequisites: `None`

An action that lets you add data as tokens to the current execution context. Inject data can be used to load data that other actions other actions down the stack need.

## `Typical Use Cases`

- Generate a new token
- Concatenate 2 tokens
- Overwrite a token

> 

Reviewer: I saw often the scenario where we use Inject Data to initialize some variables with empty strings so they exist regardless the path the process takes. Is this a valid use case?

Author: Yes, that is a valid use case. I forgot about it, but now it's added.

## `Don't use it to`

> - Execute a Variables token - use [Apply Tokens](/docs/Actions/apply-tokens.md) or [Execute Tokens](/docs/Actions/execute-tokens.md) actions instead

Reviewer: why?

Author: I write it like this so that we encourage clients to use all of our actions.

> - Apply tokens inside a text from different sources - use [Apply Tokens](/docs/Actions/apply-tokens.md) or [Execute Tokens](/docs/Actions/execute-tokens.md) actions instead

Reviewer: why?

Author: I wrote it like this so that we encourage clients to use all of our actions.

> - Use a token into another action list, only use it for the current one - store the data in a [hidden field](/docs/Actions/hidden-field.md), cookies or server session instead

Reviewer: Not sure I understand. The way I read is is "Don't use it to use tokens into another action list". What is an action list? What other action lists might be there? What does action lists have to do with hidden fields?

Author: I redrafted it and changed "action list" with "execution context". Hopefully it's more clear.

## `Related Actions`

| Action Name | Description|
|-------------|------------|

> | [Run SQL Query](/docs/Actions/run-sql-query.md) | Executes an SQL statement, optionally capturing the output |

Reviewer: Why is it related?

Author: I added in the description now.

## `Input Parameter Reference`

| Parameter     | Description                           | Supports Variables |
|---------------|---------------------------------------|--------------------|

> | Name/Value | First parameter refers to the name of the variable, the second one refers to the value assigned. The action use a key-value(name-value) concept. <br></br> Each data that you want to inject has different parameters. | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name/Value | The first parameter refers to the name of the new token that will be created. The second one refers to the value assigned. The action uses a key-value (name-value) concept. <br></br> Each data that you want to inject has different parameters. | Yes |
```

Reviewer: What does it mean "Each data that you want to inject has different parameters."?

## `Output Parameters Reference`

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|

> | Output Token Name | The Name parameter is stored as a token for further use anywhere in the form. |

Reviewer: I don't see an Output Token Name parameter.

Author: Fixed the parameter name.

## `Examples`

### `1. Inject data using Run SQL Query`

​

> The action below selects first client name from a database using Run SQL Query and sends it into the form. <br></br>[Import it](/docs/Actions/import-actions.md) into your application to see it in action.

Reviewer: Let's prefer doing the examples over existing tables, such as Users. This will make the examples runnable regardless of setup.

Author: Fixed it

                    "ShowErrors": false
                },
                "ActionType": "RunSql",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Data"
                    }
                }
            },
            {
                "Id": -1,
                "$_uid": "action15911016148431102",
                "Parameters": {
                    "Data": [
                        {
                            "value": "[SQL_Name]",
                            "name": "Inject_Name"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                "ActionType": "InjectData",
                "$_isOpen": false,
                "$_isLoaded": true,
                "$_isFocus": true,
                "Definition": {
                    "IsClientAction": false,
                    "Settings": {
                        "Group": "Context"
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### `2. Generate a new token`

​

> The action below generates a new token named "Client_ID" with the assigned value "ID15367" that can be used in the form. <br></br> [Import it](/docs/Actions/import-actions.md) into your application to see it in action.

Reviewer: Let's prefer creating variables like ClientId instead of Client_ID. It looks much more modern.

Author: Fixed it
